---
layout: post
title: "2012 is dead. Long live 2013"
date: 2013-01-06 21:58
comments: true
categories: 
---
# 2012 in retrospect
2012 was a year of change having got to Australia just before Christmas 2011.
I've tried my hand at a number of things, including brewing, and various tech
things that I'll discuss shortly. I've barely cycled or swum since around
April, and again, the reasons are worth mentioning. 

I think my philosophy has changed somewhat, in that it's very difficult to do
many things well - one should instead focus on the most important aspects. 
Although I enjoyed the results of brewing, and it is difficult to get the kind
of beers I like in Australia, it's not impossible and I can pay people to send
me beers I like from the other side of the country. At the moment it's 
pointless brewing due to the heat anyway, but once things quieten down again 
I hope I'll devote some more time to it. 

For swimming and cycling, I decided in April that I was going to focus big 
style on my running. With four days a week running, that doesn't leave a lot
of time for other exercise - but if I really wanted to, I could find time, I've
clearly chosen not to. The swimming pool closing over winter, and the swimming
lessons stopping over winter don't help. I imagine if it gets much hotter I may
be replacing runs with swims soon though! I'd like to cycle a bit more but it
needs time to do well. 

As for tech, I've really tried to pare down my interests this year. I've 
decided to limit myself to one language (python) rather than looking at
everything. So for web apps it's been django and flask rather than rails or
node, for configuration management it's been ansible (I've made a number of
contributions which has really helped my python and my ability to contribute
to open source through git and github). I've looked at data analysis using
pandas, although I really really rate D3 for client side rendering using 
javascript - and indeed the training log entries on this site make extensive
use.

The move of this site to Octopress was half pragmatic 
(keeping drupal up to date was a 
chore) and half research - how to publish a site using just git and heroku
using markdown for rendering. There are a few minor tweaks I've made using ruby
under the hood (in particular the training pages) which
might seem to break my python-only rule, but it really was minor.

For running, this year I've made personal bests at 5km (by over a minute), 10km
(by three minutes, but I'm not happy with either of my 10kms) and the marathon
(first by 7 minutes, then by 17 minutes). I also finished my first ultra run
with a 50km run at Glasshouse. Time wasn't great, and I had some routing 
problems, but I did it nonetheless. I've done a lot more trail running this
year, racing at Pinnacles and regularly attending Bunyaville Trail Runners. 
I've also attended more parkruns this year than other years, and the birth
of Sandgate Parkrun has found me volunteering more too. I also volunteered at 
Wild Horse Criterium, and while I fancy doing that race this year I do want to 
ensure I contribute to the trail running community too.

# 2013 Goals
I have a vague goal of doing something like Ultra Trail du Mont Blanc by the 
time I'm 40 (or given it's in September, just after my 40th). So many of my 
goals will be not only to qualify, but also to prepare. Right now I wouldn't
stand a chance!

Runs I plan to do in 2013: 

* Brisbane Marathon (a new PB would be nice - so sub 3:30)
* Oxfam Trailwalker 100km (sub 20 hours seems possible but depends on team 
  and me)
* Wild Horse Criterium (considering the 60km or even the 80km as it 
  approaches Trailwalker) 
* Any timed 10km that fits with the rest of my schedule to get the kind of PB
  I'm theoretically capable of (below 45min seems reasonable)
* On that note it would be good to get a new half marathon PB too, although
  it's not letting the side down as much as the 10km.

I also want to significantly reduce my 5km time - but suspect it'll need a cool
windless day before that happens - my usual time right now is 90 seconds longer than PB!

With our recently bought house I really want to dedicate time to improving it 
as much as is sensible and affordable (not exactly a smart goal but without 
the advice of experts I don't know what is sensible or even possible). 

I also want to carry on learning - I have a few home monitoring projects that
will require some Arduino investigation.

Hopefully I'll brew the awesome Sorachi Ace Imperial IPA that I planned last 
year and never got around to. 

