---
layout: post
title: "2015 so far"
date: 2015-04-21 22:00
comments: true
categories: 
---
2015 started well with some great weeks on the trails in January
and early February, with Mount Glorious race recces, 
a very wet Mount Coot-tha run, the
Brisbane Trail Running Series race at Bunyaville and more.

Unfortunately my running took a two week hiatus just while I was hitting
my stride as I somehow cricked my neck in my sleep, and then made it
worse the following evening by going trail running up Chainsaw. By the
end of that run I could barely move my neck. Several physio trips later
and a couple of weeks off running and it finally eased up ready for more
running.

The postponement of the Mount Glorious race was ideal for me --- I was
marginal for the original date as I was only just getting back into
running but two weeks later and I was ready to go, and got a 3 minute
PB. I went to Mapleton for the Sunshine Coast Hinterland Great Walk run,
32 hard kms up some very long climbs, but was good to be able to run
with Brad again who had just come back from injury and did very well
to finish the 32km.

The following weekend looked like it might be another good one as I
was in good form for the Twilight Half. Alas, it was not to be, as
torrential downpours flooded the course and a severe thunderstorm loomed
ominously enough for the race organisers to stop the race before
the second lap. I found out it was a 10km race at the 9km mark, and
the last km is my third ever fastest according to Strava. I was a
minute off my 10km PB, and well on course to beat my half marathon
PB by around three minutes. The conditions were ideal for me other
than the flooding!

My Ultra Trail de 4 Massifs training plan remains on track --- I've only
missed one planned run so far and I'm comfortable with how I'm doing.
My two biggest sessions have been a back to back weekend containing Pinnacles
race recce followed by 26km at Mount Coot-tha, and yesterday's
Numinbah to Pollys 50km race, of which more to come. I'll also provide
more details on my training plan in a future post.

<table class="table">
<thead>
<tr>
<th> Month          </th>
<th style="text-align:center;"> Distance </th>
<th style="text-align:center;"> Time  </th>
<th style="text-align:center;"> Ascent </th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td> January        </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 204.6km  </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 24:10 </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 5555m  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> February       </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 137.3km  </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 16:10 </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 4064m  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> March          </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 260.0km  </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 29:40 </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 5531m  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> April (so far) </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 216.5km  </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 24:45 </td>
<td style="text-align:center;"> 6339m  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</div>
